---
date: 20/03/2025
title: Dr. Hassan Khan, Aston University- Leveraging Gaze Tracking for Building Explainable AI Solutions for EEG and Pathology Data 
categories: event
time: 1pm
location: ALB- SM1
description:
---
Abstract: Deep learning models are data hungry and lack explainability; tracking the eye gaze patterns of doctors as they examine data on computer screens provides an interesting avenue for tackling both these problems. First, it provides a strategy for promptly generating large volumes of roughly labelled data that could be used for training deep learning models. Second, it may provide clues that could be used to improve the explainability features of AI models. In this talk, I will introduce some of our existing work on eye tracking based data annotation where we used denoising to derive labels from eye-gaze patterns, which were then used to train deep-CNN models for detecting regions of interest in pathology data. This will be followed by an introduction of some of our on-going work, and data collection efforts, in neurology in which we are using eye tracking and large language models to build a system that can read EEG data and provide a text summary of the recording. This talk will also introduce some real-life lessons learnt from 8 years of building neurology and pathology solutions for resource-constrained healthcare systems in LMIC countries like Pakistan.

Short Bio: Dr. Hassan Khan received his PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Michigan State University (2015), for his work on kernel methods for biosensing applications. He worked as an academic for several years at NUST/Pakistan and the University of Jeddah in Saudi Arabia before moving to Birmingham and joining Aston University in 2022. His research is primarily focused around biomedical, medical imaging, and neuroscience applications of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, to address pain points in healthcare applications with a particular focus on resource-constrained environments and operational bottlenecks in low- and middle-income countries.
